{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ====================[War for the Crown]=====================\
A Wololo conversion by Archvillain Ediwir.\
====================SPOILERS AHEAD====================\
\
Welcome to my War for the Crown conversion. This is currently in progress as more books get converted and properly formatted, but I hope to be able to release the sections in a timely enough manner to allow for playthrough (I currently have notes and most material up to the end of book 4). For now, this is what you need to know:\
\
\

\f1\b -the plot-\

\f0\b0 War for the Crown is an intrigue-based campaign which leads the players through the world of high nobility in Taldor and features two/three intertwined plotlines: the bid for the crown of Princess Eutropia against General Pythareus, a militaristic tyrant intending to drag the country into war, spanning books 1-4. The machinations of the Immaculate Circle, a cabal of immortals attempting to take control of the country, foreshadowed in the early books and developing in books 3-6. And the fate of Prince Carrius\'92s soul, dragged away from the beyond by the powers of the Circle to serve as their puppet king, emerging in the end of book 3 and developing in books 6-7.\
This will also eventually include my own ending to the campaign, 
\f2\i As All Things Should Be
\f0\i0 , a lv18-20 adventure conclusion focused on Prince Carrius.\
Due to some personal choices in the plot, there are several minor variations . These will be highlighted in each book\'92s Author\'92s Notes files and can be ignored, but some alterations to stat blocks might be required in that case. That includes the changes to a few relics in books 2 and 3, a reflavouring of some NPCs in book 4 and an altered encounter in book 5.\
\
While more details are available in the player\'92s guide, your players should know the following:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
After the death of Prince Carrius, the only heir to the throne, Princess Eutropia has started a series of campaigns for reforms that made her known as a prominent rising political figure. Her ongoing effort to innovate the country is culminating in the final vote for the repeal of the old primogeniture law, which states that only male heirs may inherit titles.\
You have been hired by Lady Martella Lotheed, a minor politician from Oppara sympathetic to the cause, to work the floor of the Senate before the vote can happen and ensure the support of certain influential noblemen.\
\

\f1\i0\b -Player Advice
\f0\b0 -\
Because of the nature of the campaign, Charisma-oriented classes such as Bards, Champions and Sorcerers will find themselves particularly at ease. Skill masters such as Investigators, Rangers and Rogues will have multiple chances to shine, but every character should aim for some level of proficiency. And due to certain peculiarities, unconventional picks such as Barbarian and Druid can still be made to fit and function.\
However, because of certain plot points, Champions and Clerics may face some specific challenges: in particular, anyone following the Tenets of Law, Erastil, or Torag will eventually commit anathema (\'93do not tell lies\'94). Advise any would-be paladin that this is more of a behind-the-scene kind of deal, and they will need a minimum of moral flexibility.\
\
Ancestries in Taldor are prevalently human, and only fully human and aasimar characters will be able to claim nobility. While half-elves are common enough, they tend to be shunned from noble families and may find such prejudice challenging in the ballrooms. Halflings are also common, but as servants and pages (a good chance to go unobserved). Less \'93eye-pleasing\'94 ancestries such as dwarves and half-orcs are similarly challenged, and goblins or tieflings will feel this even more.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 Suggested Lore categories are Animals, Fiends, Undead (for enemies), Folklore, History, Taldor (for context), Arts, Fashion, Hunting, Mercantile, Military, Nobility, Riding, Jousting, or any craft or trade-related category (such as Brewing, Farming, or Jewelry). Note that all Lore skills play relevant roles in social interactions.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
-
\f1\b Backstories-
\f0\b0 \
While the conversion provides campaign backgrounds using the original Traits, there is much more that can be done, and tying player backstories to plots can be highly rewarding in the long run. Here are a few examples of connections that can be used:\
\
- military background: this is perhaps the most immediate tie-in. The idea that the character might have served under Pythareus, owe him in some form (probably indirectly, perhaps owing their chance to join the military by his own sway over recruitment), or simply admire and respect the man can be a very easy way to tie in the plot, but can drive a character to difficult choices when their loyalty is divided, so be careful. A less risky idea is to include some old comrades, such as Grammel Taychar, or lieutenant Jonrek, both found in book 3 and mildly underutilised.\
\
- benevolent patron: a character with an interest in arcane magic, or alchemy, or other magical power could have attracted the attention of the Circle. A noble-born could find his studies sponsored by Panivar, while a lowborn could be noticed by Nenareen and encouraged to improve his station. In any ways, you should feel free to let the player know one such patron has in the past anonymously offered to assist their character financially. Make the offer as shady and sinister as you like, with any mentions of how nobility separates them from the peasants or that superior intellect can earn as much respect as noble blood - then offer them a few free lv1 spells or formulas, no strings attached. See if they accept. If they do, they gain them freely and without consequence -the gift is genuine- but you should never tell them. Let them worry. If they don\'92t, they know something\'92s going on, and that\'92s enough.\
\
- family loss: any character whose family got caught in intrigue, fell from favour or got eliminated could have found some hints of Milon Jeroth\'92s hand behind those events. While there will be hardly any mention of him until mid book 3, Jeroth is a formidable opponent to look forward to and a very slippery figure, making him a fitting candidate for the role of recurring nemesis. If you don\'92t want to use Jeroth, or if the scale of loss doesn\'92t quite deserve him, you can use Earl Merkondus instead, a sly politician who is much more dangerous in a council chamber than any combat could possibly be. His weapons are lies, rumours, and honeyed words, and as such he fits very well in any story where someone has been taken down not by an assassin, but by words and politics.\
\
- good intentions: healers and alchemists who want to try and make a difference might move to Oppara to take part in the country\'92s larger system, but they often start somewhere humbler. So why not making this beginning a shared journey, where a fellow healer, blessed with a spark of the divine, has continued without them? Vaddrigan Pol is many things, but outwardly he always presents himself as a man working to help the poorest. Let that be what the players know of him - there will be plenty of chances to change their mind.\
\
- murder mystery: the disappearance of Tae Amalon doesn\'92t have to be locked all the way into book 4. Since it happened about a generation ago, it can be altered slightly to have played a part in the PC\'92s backstory. While a student would be likely pretty old by now, there is good space to relate parents to her, either as colleagues, relatives or other students. A minor family could have been placed as a scapegoat and shunned from the city. A local investigator could have spent years on the case, obsessing over the details and teaching her son how to look for clues through her work. Fitting for any character that was raised in Zimar.\
\
- the Lotheeds: a family with plenty of good plot hooks, characters don\'92t need to be Lotheeds to have been in contact with them. Hailing from Lotheedar or Meratt in general will suffice, and some specific connection with Titus (a braggart and a bully, or perhaps a skilled rival), Guisarne (a strict lawkeeper, or perhaps a misunderstood outcast) or Bartelby himself (an uncaring lord, or perhaps a man pressured by the weight of his own name) will give you several ways to expand roleplay. This can also be how Martella came to find the specific character.\
\
- the Stavians: this is much more specific than others, and should be reserved exclusively to those players that pick up the Stavian title. Let them know. Tell them. I\'92m not saying what, just tell them 
\f2\i the thing
\f0\i0 . The one from book 4. Obviously they should know they must never tell anyone, but it works as a preamble to the following - their character should have noticed growing tension between the princess and her father, and have motivation to join the campaign in the idea to avoid this to devolve into a larger fallout 
\f2\i such as with the Thing
\f0\i0 . While it serves as foreshadowing for the events that will soon happen, and it may seem like it resolves almost immediately, 
\f2\i the thing
\f0\i0  will eventually return and emerge. If everyone turns to the Stavian player when that comes up, you did it right.\
\
- the Kind One: I initially wrote the Kind One as a witch patron, and it fits very well as one, but you can adapt it to other characters. The Kind One is meant to be a vision, something that appears in dreams and communion at most, driving the character through her life with grace and warmth and leading her to picking a path that will eventually lead them to the Gala. In truth, the Kind One is Pharasma herself, acting in a roundabout way to move a mortal instrument towards a path that will eventually lead to Panivar, someone that neither Pharasma nor her servants can find, and to Carrius, an innocent victim in need of healing.\
\

\f1\b -Subsystems-
\f0\b0 \
There are several subsystems in War for the Crown, and a large amount of mini-games that take part in social scenarios. Because of this, each book will feature a Subsystem file detailing specific content.\
This is a summary of the recurring ones:\
\
- Social Combat: in social combat, characters attempt to create lasting bonds with nobles and relevant targets by sharing common interests and making themselves more known. These kind of bonds are deeper than the temporary agreements Diplomacy could lead to, take longer, and are more varied, meaning each NPC has different potential approaches. Tipically, DCs will be fairly high, but failure will still lead to partial progress. Make sure to highlight the importance of Discovery checks, as understanding the best way to approach is going to be very relevant. This is used in books 1, 2, 5, and 7, and introduced in the very first session.\
\
- Leadership: as the characters delve deeper in the world of politics and intrigue, they will soon realise that they cannot be everywhere at once, and even their growing skills are sometimes not a perfect fit to what they want to achieve. Gradually, as they grow more accustomed to this, they will learn how to gather supporters, assistants, and contacts, and the most effective ways to lead them. Characters will have a series of ranks determining how easily they can gather quality agents, and a value of operation points representing how many resources they managed to accrue. While the character\'92s skill is intrinsic, these agents are location-dependant, and gathering a new network will be necessary every time they move to a new location. This will allow players to quickly find information, infiltrate, reveal, corrupt or steal, letting them move in the background of the world through their own personal followers. This is introduced in book 2 and used from that moment forward.\
\
- Relics of Taldor: Taldor lives and breathes through glory and pride. These traits are embedded deeply in some ancient relics of its history, such as Dignity\'92s Barb or Ovetrian\'92s Plate. Each time these relics are found, they are dormant, at a baseline power level. To awaken them and allow them to regain their full power, characters will need to prove themselves by achieving Triumphs, feats of legend that will shape history or rekindle the pride that once inspired their magics. This is introduced in book 1 and continues until the very end, with the conclusion of book 6 marking the last real Triumph.\
\
- Verbal Duel: Not all conflicts are resolved with swords and blood. Some people can be swayed. Some hope to sway the characters. Some are doubting their own cause. When such an individual shows up, a verbal duel might be used. This is a form of confrontation that uses the characters\'92 skills and knowledges to try and change someone\'92s mind, possibly bringing evidence and proof to support their side. While it\'92s always possible to pull a sword and end the discussion, winning a verbal duel (or, in some cases, getting close to it) tends to grant several benefits, from turning an enemy into an ally to altering part of the adventure. This is introduced in book 2 and used sparingly, but at least once in most books.\
\

\f1\b -Other GM tips-
\f0\b0 \
I came to love props while running Paranoia, and Pathfinder can benefit from them a lot as well. Here are a couple of ideas.\
\
-Mission notes. Print out the emperor\'92s page from the adventure backmatter, write \'93mission notes\'94 on the back, and hand it to the players, saying it\'92s a good idea to have relevant notes out where everyone can refresh their memory and encouraging them to jot down relevant plot points. War for the Crown can get pretty complex and intricated, and the advice is real and sound, but the primary purpose of this is for the players to read the emperor page. Do this every book, and encourage people to go back to old notes if they\'92re stuck - the foreshadowing is real, but this will become massively relevant once book 6 hits full force and everyone scrambles to read up on the emperors.\
\
-Tea. At least once or twice in each book, the characters get offered tea, wine, cakes, coffee, or biscuits. While you should be careful of spills, some tea (or other drink of choice) can help convey the atmosphere of an unconventional campaign, delineating a meeting and calling people to attention when big plot developments come up. It also serves to empower the starting encounter with Jeroth, where seating order and drink choice becomes very important.\
\
-Themes. While I am not a huge fan of ambient music, I do like to underline certain story arcs with an ongoing theme. Once players get used to it, they feel the connection, and subtle hints become much stronger, but not necessarily clear. It\'92s easy to understand why Taychar, Merkondus and Pythareus have the same ongoing theme, but if players notice that Dagio, Ehlers and Panivar share one, why does Carrius\'92s first appearance use it as well? It might be entirely out of game, but it\'92s still a nagging feeling that says \'93time to investigate\'94. I suggest using three - one for the Imperialists, one for the Circle, and one for Xan.\
\
As for the managment of Uncommon options, alignment-based divinations have potential to be problematic in War for the Crown - while not all enemies are evil, most front a different behaviour in public. Many social-themed feats which are Uncommon, such as Tweak Appearances, are highly fitting and should be easily allowed. The campaign includes a few Uncommon options, mostly in the form of gears and spells, which should avoid disruptions - but the last word, as usual, is yours.\
\

\f1\b -book 7: As All Things Should Be-
\f0\b0 \
While the book is still being written, and will be released freely within this same conversion once completed, it will feature elements of investigation, planar dungeon delving, and a final fight with an old nemesis. Notes on how to alter the story to fit the ending will be presented in books 3, 5, and 6.\
Once my own players go through it, more of the plot will be revealed here.\
\
}