{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 Backgrounds:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
The campaign will use campaign-specific backgrounds, adapted from the Player\'92s Guide. Rather than the regular backgrounds, players may use one of the following:\
\

\f0\b Athletic Champion
\f1\b0  (Str/Cha)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Your physique and skill brought you into the public eye, and a winning smile helps you stay there. Taldor honors its extraordinary athletes, celebrating them as cultural heroes. Whether you were a gladiator, a runner, a wrestler, or any other competitor, your most recent victory caused someone important to sit up and take notice. You may never have a political career in front of you, but for now your name is helping to bring a little extra money in, and maybe that's good enough.
\f1\i0 \
Athletics, Combat Climber, Taldor Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Child of Oppara
\f1\b0  (Dex/Cha)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 You belong to a noble family that matters in Taldor, though as the story begins you may or may not be on good terms with your relatives. Your upbringing among the city's well-to-do gives you an upper hand when it comes to knowledge of high society, and you start the game being used to a certain level of comfort. With Princess Eutropia's efforts to provide for Taldor's common citizens and overturn years of tradition, new lines are being quietly drawn in the sand, and you have found yourself embroiled in these intrigues whether you intended to be or not.\
With this trait, the assumption is that you belong to a minor noble family (and can make up your family name). In this case, your family keeps a small manor in Aroden's View or Senate's Hill. If you want to be a member of one of Oppara's major noble families, you must take the Noble Scion heritage.
\f1\i0 \
Society, Courtly Graces, Fashion Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Disgraced Noble
\f1\b0  (Str/Cha)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Your noble family used to matter, until your father took a stand against Maxillar Pythareus, the commander of Taldor's military. True or not, the accusations Pythareus leveled against your family in return destroyed your reputation and isolated you from the society you grew up in. Now the only thing that matters to you is clawing your way back up the social ladder, either for your own quality of life or to clear your family's name. You've had to practice deception as you began working your way back into Taldan social circles.
\f1\i0 \
Deception, Charming Liar, Nobility Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Rising Star
\f1\b0  (Dex/Int)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 All too often, great minds must suffer for their art, but you're one of the lucky ones. Your skills attracted the attention of a noble patron who pays for your food, housing, and tools. As your patron introduces you to other cultural elites, you're slowly learning to navigate the treacherous waters of high society, but you still remember the lean times when each meal was a hard-won treasure.
\f1\i0 \
Perform, Fascinating Performance, Arts Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Senatorial Hopeful
\f1\b0  (Con/Wis)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 While you belong to a noble family, hailing from the outlying prefectures means you lack the pull and wealth needed to rub shoulders with the stars of Oppara's social scene. Your life has been quiet, isolated from the thrum of fashion and pop culture, but you see this as a source of insight and aim to help people by someday joining the senate. It'll be a long journey, but you've already begun learning which hands to shake and how to listen carefully when others tell you what they want.
\f1\i0 \
Diplomacy, Group Impression, Nobility Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Taldan Patriot
\f1\b0  (Con/Int)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 You love your country, its history, and its people... even though they may not love you back. Whether you're a bureaucrat, a minor noble, or a soldier, you want your community to be the best it can be and you channel that love into a position in service to the people of Taldor.
\f1\i0 \
Diplomacy, Hobnobber, History Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Young Reformer
\f1\b0  (Dex/Wis)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Perhaps you were born at the bottom of Taldan society and you're tired of seeing your friends and family toil endlessly with no hope of a better life, or maybe your privileged outlook was shattered by empathy or tragedy. Either way, you know the system is broken, and you've dedicated your life to fixing it. But tradition rules Taldor as much as any Grand Prince, and change requires more influence than you have... so far. You've got a few friends and allies, and plenty of determination, but while you work toward the power you need to change the nation, you'll have to resort to more discrete ways of righting wrongs and curbing the abuses of the upper class.
\f1\i0 \
Thievery, Subtle Theft, Taldor Lore\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Heritages:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
The campaign also features a special Human heritage, Noble Human, aimed at integrating players as part of one of the great noble families of Taldor. While it is not necessary to have the heritage to be part of the family, and some bastard children might have gained such skills despite not having the title, most members take pride in carrying the family legacy.\
\
Noble (human heritage): the blood of old Taldor runs in your veins, whether you are in good standing with your family or not. Select one noble family you belong to from the following list:\
\

\f0\b -Basri:
\f1\b0  you come from a long line of ambassadors, diplomats, and travelers, and your family maintains the strongest ties to the elven nations of Kyonin of any Taldean. You can select one additional language between Celestial, Elven, Gnome or Silvan, and you have access to all uncommon Elven weapons and items, the Elven Lore and Elven Weapon Familiarity feat, and all feats that require them.\
\

\f0\b -Clement:
\f1\b0  your Garundi and Mwangi ancestors served Taldor proudly during the Sixth Army of Exploration and were awarded lands and titles for their service. Your family is known for its keen insights and biting observations. You can use your Wisdom modifier instead of your Charisma modifier for the Diplomacy skill, and always begin verbal duel with a free Edge.\
\

\f0\b -Corcina:
\f1\b0  your family came to prominence during the Second Army of Exploration, and maintains a legacy as explorers and sailors. You treat successes in Survival as critical successes.\
\

\f0\b -Karthis:
\f1\b0  yours is a family of distinguished military veterans, charismatic demagogues, and xenophobic zealots. As the rest of the family becomes increasingly Imperialist, you have made no effort to remain in their good graces, but you retain the skills they taught you during a childhood of rigorous training. When using Deception or Diplomacy for Initiative, you treat all opponents as flat-footed until the end of your first round.\
\

\f0\b -Kastner:
\f1\b0  your stalwart family defines itself by opposing your devil-worshipping Chelish cousins, a grudge that inspired some of Taldor\'92s greatest healers, priests, and negotiators. You have a +1 circumstance bonus to your Medicine checks to treat other living creatures. If you succeed, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your Diplomacy checks towards the creatures you treated until the next day.\
\

\f0\b -Lotheed: 
\f1\b0 your family ranks include the greatest wizards and arcane scholars in Taldor, and schooling in some of the most comprehensive arcane libraries in the Inner Sea was your birthright. You learn Read Aura as an arcane cantrip, and you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to all your checks to Learn a Spell and Identify Magic.\
\

\f0\b -Merosett: 
\f1\b0 the cunning members of your large family, a longtime fixture in Oppara\'92s bureaucracy, specialise in tracking lineages and sidestepping red tape. You never critically fail at Society checks, and you halve the time required to create forgeries, decipher writing, search archives, examine contracts or otherwise work within complex bureaucracies.\
\

\f0\b -Stavian:
\f1\b0  a close relative of the Grand Prince, yours has been a life of material comfort and indulgence, coloured by constant threats and direct influence. If you critically fail at a saving throw against a mental effect that attempts to control your actions or against a poison, you treat it as a regular fail instead.\
\

\f0\b -Talbot:
\f1\b0  your starkly conservative family are merchants and entrepreneurs first and aristocrat second, willing to forgo duty if they can pursue profit. They condemn would-be adventurers and readily oust them from the family ranks, leaving you an outcast. You gain the Additional Lore feat related to a trade or profession of your choice.\
\

\f0\b -Varima: 
\f1\b0 your family immigrated to Taldor from Vudra hundreds of years ago, and thanks to noble roots, extensive trade contacts, and an unparalleled skill in negotiation, soon developed into a steadfast fixture in Oppara\'92s social scene. Whenever you roll Diplomacy to influence a crowd, room, or area, you can roll twice and take the better result.\
\

\f0\b -Vernisant: 
\f1\b0 your family is descended from the great general Arnisant, who commanded Taldean forces during the Shining Crusade - and they will never let anyone forget it! Their fierce Imperialist support and nationalist fervor has left you alienated from your relatives now, but their emphasis on scholarship left a mark nonetheless. When you use the Recall Knowledge action, you never critically fail as long as you are at least Trained.\
\

\f0\b -Vinmark: 
\f1\b0 newcomers and outsiders, your Ulfen family was exalted to nobility 19 years ago, when Stavian III promoted your family patriarch to Baron of Oppara as a reward for service in the Ulfen Guard. Established aristocrats consider your family crude, choosing to leave them on the margins of Taldan politics unless a noble thinks they can use you to curry favour with the Grand Prince, but hard-won practicality and newborn cynicism grant you insight most Taldan nobles lack. You gain a +2 conditional bonus to your Perception checks and DC against deceptions and illusions.\
\

\f0\b -Zespire: 
\f1\b0 your family runs charities and lobbies heavily for social reform, leaving them with few friends among their Opparan peers but heartfelt support from the common folk and lesser nobility. Whenever you succeed at a Diplomacy or Perform checks to influence or verbal duel common citizens and nobles whose titles are limited to Lord, Lady, Knight or Dame, you critically succeed instead.\
\
}