{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red197\green219\blue240;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c81176\c88627\c95294;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Verbal Duels are confrontations that somehow happen when characters of opposing viewpoints face each other in a way that does not devolve into combat. Normally these are leaders or lone agents, or otherwise individuals with discretional power or authority. Winning a verbal duel normally either prevents a combat from happening or grants certain benefits, while losing a verbal duel tends to end in a confrontation, as detailed in the conversion details for each book.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul \ulc2 This file includes no spoilers and can be shared or printed freely.\cf2 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Bias: 
\f0\b0 The audience of a duel affects the overall pace, and their opinion matters. A bias imposes a circumstance bonus or penalty on tactic skill checks equal to -5, -2, +2 or +5. Biases can be identified with a Perception check (DC based on  familiarity) by spending 10 minutes or more with the audience.\
\

\f1\b Edges: 
\f0\b0 Each time you win an exchange, you gain an edge. An edge allows for a single reroll. Some circumstances may grant additional edges.\
\

\f1\b Determination: 
\f0\b0 A duelist\'92s base determination is equal to 8 plus their Charisma modifier. Circumstances might modify your total Determination. In the case of a group duel, only use the highest value.\
\

\f1\b Ante: 
\f0\b0 Whenever a verbal duel starts or a counter is successful, the Ante is raised by 1. Whenever an exchange is won, the Ante is subtracted from the loser\'92s Determination, and if it brings it to 0, the duel ends. If not, the Ante is set to 0 and the duel continues with a new exchange.\
\

\f1\b Critical results:
\f0\b0  When countering, it is possible to critically succeed (or fail) the opposed check. A critical success automatically ends the exchange with a victory. Apply all victory effects without allowing the chance to further replies. A critical failure causes the loss of 1 Determination in addition to all normal effects.\
\
\

\f1\b Modifiers:
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b -Last Tactic: 
\f0\b0 it\'92s bad form (and socially awkward) to counter a tactic with the same tactic. If you do so, you receive a -2 circumstance penalty on that roll.\
\

\f1\b -Repetition: 
\f0\b0 using the same tactic over and over is not very effective. Each time a duelist wins an exchange with a particular tactic, they take a cumulative -2 conditional penalty on all rolls based on that tactic. For group duels, each group member suffers this as a penalty to all of their tactics.\
\

\f1\b -Interaction: 
\f0\b0 some tactics have specific modifiers.\
\
\

\f1\b TACTICS:
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Allegory\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You use a fable or parable featuring an underlying message to frame the debate. While it is sometimes difficult to use allegory in the heat of an exchange, it makes a very effective opener.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Lore (history), Society, Religion, Perform.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  You take a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill checks when using allegory as a counter.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  If you use allegory to open an exchange, and your opponent chooses to end the exchange rather than attempt to counter your allegory, increase the exchange\'92s current ante by 2 (before your opponent\'92s determination is reduced) instead of gaining an edge.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Baiting\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You hurl taunts and barbs, or level false dichotomies, goading your opponent into a trap. Baiting works best when the stakes are already high, since in that case backing down can be even more damaging than blundering into your trap.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Deception, Intimidate, Perform, Perception.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  A duelist using a tactic other than presence takes a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill check when countering baiting.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  Baiting cannot be employed to open an exchange. If your opponent ends an exchange rather than counter your baiting, your baiting doesn\'92t suffer the normal \'962 circumstance penalty on future associated skill checks for winning an exchange.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Emotional Appeal\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You make an argument appealing to the emotional desires of your opponent or audience. This tactic is particularly useful against an opponent with an advantage in status or knowledge; raising the emotional stakes can be rewarding, but it can also be dangerous.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Deception, Perform, Perception.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the associated skill check when using an emotional appeal to counter logic, presence, and rhetoric.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  Successfully countering with an emotional appeal increases the exchange\'92s ante by an additional 1.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Flattery\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You ingratiate yourself to your opponent, causing him to either let down his guard or to gain some other advantage.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 While usually deceptive and manipulative, this tactic also covers the actions of characters who are genuinely likeable and friendly.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Bluff, Diplomacy, Society, Lore (Nobility).\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  You take a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill check when using flattery to counter mockery. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the associated skill check when using flattery to counter presence.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  If you win an exchange with flattery, reduce the ante of the exchange by 2 (minimum 0) and gain an additional edge that can be used with any skill check in a verbal duel.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Logic\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 When you use logic, you present facts, figures, and expert testimony. While logic can still be used to mislead your adversary or the audience, unlike most other tactics, it still requires a strong understanding of the subject matter to do so.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Any skill with a Recall Knowledge action, as appropriate.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the associated skill check when you use logic as an opener. You take a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill check when you use logic to counter baiting, emotional appeal, mockery, red herring, or wit.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  When you win an exchange with logic, you gain 1 edge that you can only use with logic.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Mockery\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You use personal attacks, mudslinging, or creative insults to belittle your opponent. Mockery works best when you capitalise on your opponent\'92s use of an unpopular tactic.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Deception, Intimidate, Perform.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  You take a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill check when you use mockery to counter logic and wit.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the associated skill check when you use mockery to counter a tactic with a negative audience bias, and if you win the exchange with mockery against such a tactic, increase the ante by 1. You take a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill check when you use mockery to counter a tactic with a positive audience bias, though if you succeed, reduce the ante by 1.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Presence\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You make a show of confidence or true nobility or you simply put on airs, and an opponent\'92s claims slide off and bounce back against him, leaving you unscathed. This tactic works to deflect baiting and mockery but is less effective against other tricks.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Intimidate, Society, Lore (nobility).\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Interaction:\ulnone  You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the associated skill check when you use presence to counter baiting or mockery. You take a \'962 circumstance penalty on the associated skill check when using presence to counter allegory, emotional appeal, or red herring.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  If you win an exchange with presence, you regain 1 determination (to a maximum amount equal to your starting determination).\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Red Herring\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You use this tactic to distract your opponent or the audience from the heart of the debate, avoiding the danger of the current exchange. While a red herring can\'92t be used as an opener, it can be used to quickly end an exchange that is getting too dangerous to continue.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Deception, Perform.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  You cannot use red herring as an opener.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 When using a red herring as a counter, you can choose to gain a +4 bonus on the associated skill check. If you do so and succeed, instead of continuing and escalating the exchange as normal, you reduce the ante to 0 and automatically win the exchange. Unlike normal, you start the next exchange.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Rhetoric\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You use versatile debating tactics, applying advantageous rhetorical devices to squash your opponent\'92s arguments.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 Most of the verbal manoeuvres included in this tactic are simple and forthright linguistic devices; deceptive debating gambits are often included as part of other tactics such as baiting, emotional appeal, mockery, or red herring. Rhetoric is a multipurpose tactic that lacks some of the dangers of other tactics, but doesn\'92t offer any significant rewards either.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Diplomacy, Society, Perform\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  Since rhetoric involves subtle word choices that most audiences don\'92t notice consciously, it is very rare for an audience to have a negative bias toward rhetoric.\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Wit\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 You use humour or cleverness to gain an advantage over your opponent, but the tactic can backfire if your jokes and jibes fall flat.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Associated Skills:\ulnone  Society, Perform.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 Special:\ulnone  When using wit, you can choose to gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the associated skill check. If you do so and fail the associated skill check, decrease your determination by 1. If you fail by 5 or more, you take a \'962 circumstance penalty on wit\'92s associated skill checks for the rest of the duel.\
\

\f1\b FEATS:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Orator [General] [Skill] [Feat 7]\
Prerequisites: Master in Diplomacy\
____________________________________________________________________________\
Choose one Verbal Duel tactic. You always gain at least a +2 circumstance bonus to any checks using or countering that tactic, and start each duel with an extra Edge you can only use with your chosen tactic.\
}