{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10700\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 The Leadership system presented here is a strong rework from what offered in the base adventure, and has been developed with second edition in mind from the forefront, but heavily draws on the original and several community contributions.\
It removes the requirement for \'93upgrade checks\'94 and preordered structured \'93persona phases\'94, instead relying on a story-based progression and freeform operations. While it requires some GM adjudication, it can be easily made to feel more organic and spontaneous, hopefully making it more involving for the players.\
\
\
The Leadership system is composed of six core stats, called Leadership Facets, determining the character\'92s intrinsic ability to make allies and collect contacts (a distinction that becomes massively relevant in books 4-5) among different kind of people, and one resource, called Operation Points, representing the support and resources at a character\'92s disposal and used to fuel special actions.\
\
\ul All Leadership increases and points distributions are noted in the Author\'92s Notes file in each book. This file includes no spoilers and can be shared or printed freely.\ulnone \
\
The Facets grant the following benefits, depending on their rank:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1 Trained in Operation checks.\
2\
3 Admirers\
4\
5 Bonus feat\
6\
7 Expert in Operation checks.\
8\
9\'a0Master in Operation checks.\
10 Capstone special ability.\
\uc0\u8232 Facet increases grant a +1 to a single facet, or a +1 to two facets as long as neither has a rank higher than 4. These are gained at key points of the story.\
Operation checks are Charisma based and rank up automatically, according to the table.\
Admirers: attitudes of NPCs belonging to the facet category can be moved one step friendlier than usual by leveraging one's fame. See facets.\
\uc0\u8232 \

\f1\b Operations:
\f0\b0 \
Players can spend Operation Points (up to their Rank value) to delegate work to their sympathisers and agents. Operation Points are gained by popularity, through strategic contacts, or by winning over influential individuals to the PC\'92s cause. For this reason, Operation Points are localised, and reset upon moving to a new area. They can be spent in the following ways:\
\
Minor Operation (1OP): Simple tasks that provide small benefits. Anything that requires time and work, but not specific skills or money, is a simple operation. No checks are required. Examples include delegating someone to find information on a specific area or person, read through a room filled with newly found documents before the morning hearing, or find out rumours in a new town.\
\
Advanced Operation (3OP): A more challenging endeavour that provides significant benefits or advantages. Anything that requires specific skills or specialised agents is an Advanced Operation. Examples include understanding the magical nature of a defence, finding quickly someone able to treat illness magically, or\'a0shadowing a critical NPC.\
\
Critical Operation (5OP): Potent gambits that can change the way the adventure is played. Anything that requires highly specific agents or abilities, or deals with issues on a large scale, is a Critical Operation. Examples include planting damning evidence, counteracting powerful defences, or investigating a powerful artefact.\
\
Ongoing Operation (+2): An ongoing operation grants benefits that continue for an extended period of time. After each week, the PC has the option of paying an extra 2 points or end the operation. Example of ongoing operations may include having your agents provide you with protection from poisons, follow crucial individual for days, guard a safe house, or set up a front to hide your real intent.\
\
Risky Operation (?): Before starting an operation, the GM may state it\'92s Risky. A Risky operation\'92s cost is increased by +3 points, but refunds them on a success. A failure is likely to alert enemies to the presence of agents, and raise suspicion noticeably.\
\uc0\u8232 \

\f1\b Facets details:
\f0\b0 \
\ul Charm\ulnone  operatives are\'a0socialites, diplomats, and entertainers adept at navigating society and gaining others' trust. Their bonus feat is Shameless Request.\
At rank 10, they gain the special ability\'a0They're With Me: 1/Module they can declare that a group of up to 4 unnamed NPCs in the scene are or have been influenced by your agents. Their attitude is Helpful, and they may be able to provide assistance in the current scene.\
\
\ul Specialist\ulnone  operatives\'a0are artisans, scholars, and working professionals connected to society's industry and economy. Their bonus feat is Automatic Knowledge (working with all Assured skills).\
At rank 10, they gain the special ability\'a0Perfect Plan: 1/Module purchase any magical item you need in a scene as a free action. You have the item on your person or it is swiftly delivered or present in the area. You must pay full price for the item, which can be no higher than level-3, but the minutia of the transaction is handled offscreen. If this would put you into debt, you cannot perform any operation until you repay it.\
\
\ul Subterfuge\ulnone  operatives\'a0are criminals, corrupt officials, and common citizens keyed in to the local rumour mill whose presence is felt without being seen. Their bonus feat is Slippery Secrets.\
At rank 10, they gain the special ability\'a0The Cleaning Crew: 1/Module retroactively alter a detail or item in the scene that your agents could have accessed under disguise or through trickery. The amount of detail or items depend on the access your agents can have.\
\
\ul Duty\ulnone  operatives\'a0are guards, soldiers, postmen, and other public servants that move as cogs in a greater machine. Their bonus feat is Diehard.\
At rank 10, they gain the special ability\'a0The Muscle:\'a01/Module retroactively assign combat-trained agents to yourself, an ally, or an NPC in another scene. The Muscle can impose the Slowed 1 and Flatfooted condition to up to 4 enemies for the first round of combat when assigned to the heroes. When assigned to an NPC, they are considered "offscreen" during any combat the PCs get into and do not need further protection.\
\
\ul Politics\ulnone  operatives\'a0are local figureheads, respected clergy, or minor politicians that can spread ideas or influence a community as a whole. Their bonus feat is Orator.\
At rank 10, they gain the special ability\'a0Fake News: 1/Module establish a pervasive rumour that aids the heroes or hinders their opposition. Whether they believe it or not, everyone in the city/relevant region will hear this rumour no matter how badly others attempt to suppress it. At absolute minimum, this power can be used to adjust the average attitude of the public towards an individual by one step.\
\
\ul Popularity\ulnone  operatives\'a0are the commoners, the labourers, and the plentiful masses who lack power individually but can affect great change together if properly inspired. Their bonus feat is Battle Cry.\
At rank 10, they gain the special ability\'a0Flash Mob: 1/Module instantly introduce dozens of angry commoners into a given scene. The mob provides cover to the heroes and allows them to move unimpeded, but enemies treat most of the scene as difficult terrain. In combat, the mob is automatically hit and fails any save, and quickly disperses after taking [Level x4] hp damage.\
\

\f1\b Additional Feats:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Incredible Leadership [General] [Skill] [Uncommon] [Feat 15]\
Prerequisites: Legendary in Diplomacy, rank 10 in one Leadership facet\
___________________________________________________________________________________\
Your proficiency in Operation checks for that facet increases to Legendary. Whenever you critically succeed at an Operation for that facet, you spend one less Operation Point.\
\
}