{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ====================[War for the Crown]=====================\
A Wololo conversion by Archvillain Ediwir.\
====================SPOILERS AHEAD====================\
\
The first book of War for the Crown introduces players to the campaign and the new themes. Make sure everyone is familiar with the game system and eventual campaign background or feats, and that there is understanding over the relevance of both skills and combat, particularly on how certain subsystems will be reliant on Charisma, and how Diplomacy is 
\f1\i not
\f0\i0  the one true skill to rule them all - while important when dealing with minor NPCs, varied skill availability will be more relevant in high society.\
\

\f2\b -preparation-\

\f0\b0 The adventure begins with the PCs being noticed by Martella Lotheed, a minor politician in Oppara. Encourage players to explain why and how they came to relevance, and make sure this is established beforehand while working on their backgrounds.\
Players should have a chance to inquire about their employer if they want to, which should involve information on the Lotheed family but not on Martella\'92s ties with Eutropia - as far as they are concerned, Martella should be a sympathiser, but not a direct ally. Afterwards, once given their missions (see the Missions subsystem) they should have a chance to get to know each other\'92s character and prepare for the adventure.\
Ensure you are familiar with the Social Encounter subsystem and the first book social statblocks, including each NPC\'92s motivations and aims (found in the adventure book only). Prepare, if possible, a lot of space for players to take notes about the NPCs they meet. Ensure that people have at least a generic grasp of social encounter mechanics, particularly discovery and influence, and their feat interactions if any.\
\

\f2\b -the plot-
\f0\b0 \
Players will take the role of lobbists in a large high society gala, navigating between shifting alliances and partial truths. The evening takes a dramatic turn after a terrible betrayal, as a combination of military forces and hired assassins storm the palace, while the secretive Lion Blades defend the senators with the help of a group of Pathfinders.\
In way over their heads, the PCs escape through forgotten archives and palace corridors, facing the dangers of centuries of abandonment before coming back to the surface, only to discover their patron and employer has been kidnapped during the attack. Her rescue will occupy the final section of the adventure.\
\

\f2\b -leadership-
\f0\b0 \
Book one includes no Leadership development, but you should note how each character approaches the adventure, as that will likely determine their starting Facets early in book two.\
\

\f2\b -foreshadowing-
\f0\b0 \
- the badges: The senatorial badges the PCs are given come from the Voritas family, an extinct noble family who wasted their fortune on paranoia and historical relics. While they are of marginal relevance at the time of delivery, they will return to prominence later on, when the badges discharge a safety effect to teleport the PCs to safety.\
- Wyssilka: When running Martella\'92s presentation, highlight her in some way. While not necessarily by name, Martella could note that entertainers tend to overhear a lot during these parties, and they might be a useful source of hints if they find themselves stuck.\
- Pythareus: Having Pythareus shake hands with the duty guards won\'92t be suspicious. Him wearing ceremonial armour and weapons won\'92t be suspicious. His meeting with the Emperor won\'92t be suspicious. If players do attempt to spy on him, his exchanging words with 
\f1\i each
\f0\i0  of the captains could be, as well as his interactions with several plain-clothed men with the same 
\f1\i slightly out of place
\f0\i0  mannerism. If spoken to, he might let people know that they 
\f1\i shouldn\'92t worry too much - after tonight, at last, all succession troubles will be over
\f0\i0 .\
- the Lotheeds: The gala is a fine occasion to introduce some of Martella\'92s extended family. After all, both Bartelby (during the wine incident) and Titus (probably drunkenly bumping a PC\'92s shoulder, or kicking their seat in the final moments) are there. No need to make conversation or introductions, but let players see their faces.\
- the Circle: Starting from the abandoned Museum section, you should begin describing the circles being etched in walls, ceilings, floors. Paint, chalk, scrapes, thin blade-tip carvings. A room without circles should look suspicious. Have Dagio emphasise how the circle cannot be broken, how he will become a part of it, and how the PCs will reach the end of theirs. Highlight Eros Glendower\'92s diary, a well-used and well-read manuscript occupying a central place in the desk, with notes and writings and circles being scattered around it. Circles. While this might be forgotten for a while, the one single note about \'93joining the circle\'94 in Eros\'92s diary should bring it up again - and by the time they encounter this again, at the end of book 2, it should definitely ring a bell.\
\

\f2\b -potential issues-
\f0\b0 \
The second and third sections of this adventure play as extensive dungeon crawls. While the pressure of time isn\'92t as strong in part 2, it is definitely present in part 3 (where enemies move, patrol, and check - plus some dispatched guards might return). If the party lacks an effective Medic, ensure they meet Brother Zubari (Cleric NPC), who can provide regular wound treatment and up to 4 Heal spells (for a small price). The adventure includes potions, elixirs and other means of healing, but no way to recover spell slots if casters want to go all out. Allow players to level up without rest and gain new spells/health/abilities on the fly, but if necessary, consider allowing them to rest after part 2 and rescue Martella the day after. This should have some side effects, mostly the unavailability of the Pathfinders and perhaps the note of some additional issues by Martella, but not against the PCs directly.\
\
With all the detail on treasure, art, history and background, it can be easy to feel a little overwhelmed and lose track of things. Make sure your descriptions always include a hint of the traps - a large chalk circle across the door, bronze-plated edges joined with the pavement, a collapsed corridor with unstable-looking ceiling, a door literally dripping blood from the wood\'85 they\'92re not the kind of thing you can retcon.\
}