{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14300\viewh19240\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Martella confers the following missions (based on players\'92 skill proficiencies which you should learn beforehand):\
-Aide (Athletics or Acrobatics)\
-Discovery (Perception)\
-Fraud (Perception, then Deception, then Society)\
-Politicking (influence checks or Intimidate)\
-Sabotage (Society or Lore Brewing, then Thievery)\
-Spy (Deception or Stealth, then Perception)\
-Theft (Thievery)\
\
For 4 players, use the following:\
(success calculations assume a Perception of +5 and a skill modifier of +7)\
\

\f1\b Aide:
\f0\b0  each message requires an Athletics or Acrobatics DC10 check to be delivered on time. Overall, this mission has a 44% chance of success, but it increases to 77% if the PCs successfully familiarise themselves with the Gallery or Servant Areas, and near 100% if they influence both.\
\

\f1\b Discovery:
\f0\b0  once the two noblemen are influenced, they reveal the motives and intent of their vote.\
\

\f1\b Fraud:
\f0\b0  This requires a DC12 Perception check, a DC14 Deception check, and a DC15 Society check. Because only the Society check has direct backlash (others can be repeated without penalty) this mission has a success chance of 70%, but raises to 80% if the PCs have Vernisant\'92s Journal.\
\

\f1\b Sabotage:
\f0\b0  finding the bottle requires a DC13 Society (or DC11 Brewing Lore). Sabotaging it requires a DC12 Thievery check. The first check can be attempted multiple times, so this mission has a 75% chance of success.\
\

\f1\b Politicking:
\f0\b0  This works either by Influence or with two DC16 Intimidate checks (one critical success also works). If using Intimidate, the Baron is then Unfriendly.\
\

\f1\b Spy:
\f0\b0  This initially requires a DC15 Deception or Stealth, and then 3 successful DC13 Perception checks. Each failure requires the PC to try to hide or distract again, but can be repeated until success.\
\

\f1\b Theft:
\f0\b0  Each object requires a DC13 Thievery check to be successfully stolen. This gives the mission a 34% chance of success, but raises to 86% if Copernia is distracted.\
\
Assuming all missions have a chance of failure but PCs mitigate DCs, there is a 40% chance to complete all of them successfully. Using Hero Points or mixing in missions with repeatable checks increases the odds and is recommended. If PCs do not mitigate DCs and all missions have chance of failure, there is only an 8% chance of succeeding at all of them, so advise accordingly and perhaps mix some repeatable ones in. \ul Keep in mind that repeatable missions may take more turns\ulnone .}