{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16100\viewh21040\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Group size adjustments:\
2/3 players: use 4/6 players, but with 2 actions each\
4 players: as in base adventure.\
5 players: remove one round from event 3, 4 and 5.\
6 players: remove one additional round from events 6, 9 and 7.\
This assumes you will be using the secondary NPCs.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Discovery checks are Perception checks to determine the best skills to use when influencing an NPC during a social encounter, or what weakness might grant a bonus to these checks. Each social statblock indicates, in brackets, what other skills can be used for Discovery. When using Perception, use the highest listed DC.\
Before rolling, choose if you wish to learn a strength, weakness, bias, or influence skill.\
Strengths and biases are not used in Book 1.\
A weakness is a conditional bonus applied to any checks where players come from an angle the NPC likes.\
\
Feat interaction:\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Hobnobber
\f0\b0  allows characters to roll two Discoveries in one social turn.\

\f1\b Group Impression
\f0\b0  allows to Influence multiple NPCs at the same time, provided they are in the same area and the character opts to use Diplomacy.\
\
Discovery has the following results:\

\f1\b Success:
\f0\b0  you learn the selected weakness, strength, bias, or influence skill (starting from the hardest). If multiple influences are stated at the same DC, consider them as one single discovery.\

\f1\b Critical success:
\f0\b0  as per success, but you can roll an additional Discovery check against the same NPC.\
\
Influence checks can be used to influence an NPC in the long term. See social encounters for details. Each check has the following outcomes:\

\f1\b Success:
\f0\b0  you gain 2 successes.\

\f1\b Critical success:
\f0\b0  you gain 3 successes.\

\f1\b Failure:
\f0\b0  you gain 1 success.\

\f1\b Critical failure:
\f0\b0  you gain 0 successes. Some NPCs might have additional critical failure effects.\
Using an unlisted skill for Influence uses the highest DC, and counts as one degree of success lower.\
\
Influencing an area grants a number of successes equal to the value the DC is exceeded by. Reveal all Influence skills, but not their DCs.\
\
\

\f1\b MAIN NPCs
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 BARON OKERRA
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (nobility DC10, society DC12) concerned breaking tradition might impact stability. Reassuring grants +4 circumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (military, DC12): Deception or Lore (Taldor) DC18; Diplomacy DC22\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (2): the Baron can influence several swing votes. He is also a recurring NPC. No mechanical benefits.\
\

\f1\b COUNTESS ABRIELLE PACE
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (deception DC11, stealth DC13) duplicitous and always favourable to her listener. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nobility, DC14): Lore (Fashion) DC16; Intimidate DC22; Diplomacy DC24.\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (3): learning of the Countess\'92 betrayal grants a +2 circumstance bonus to any attempts to Influence Baron Okerra, Lady Morilla or Princess Eutropia.\
\

\f1\b DUKE LEONARD CENTIMUS
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (crafting or thievery, DC12) overcomed paralysis with his own craft and mind. Noting this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (craft, DC14): Nature or Lore (Taldor) DC17; Deception or Diplomacy DC23.\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (3): the Duke is in support of the vote. This partially completes the Discovery mission but has no mechanical benefits.\
\

\f1\b LADY GLORIANA MORILLA
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (Crafting or any profession, DC14. Spellcasters use DC12) Lady Morilla prefers more practical conversation. Gaining her interest grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (taldor, DC11): Diplomacy or Lore (Nobility) DC19; deception or Intimidate DC24.\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (2): free round to influence the princess with a +2 circumstance bonus (use Diplomacy if no skill was revealed). See part 3 for more.\
\

\f1\b HIGH STRATEGOS MAXILLAR PYTHAREUS
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (military DC11, athletics or nature DC14) discussion of riding and hiking can soften the otherwise gruff general. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (military, DC12): Lore (Military) DC16; Diplomacy or Intimidate DC27.\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (3): the general accidentally reveals that the matter of succession will be finally settled tonight, but not how.\
\

\f1\b KALBIO OF BREEZY CREEK
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Influence or Discovery:
\f0\b0  showing interest in Kalbio amazes him. Any attempt to influence or inquire about him leads to the full influence benefits.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  Kalbio follows the influencing PC anywhere, granting a +2 circumstance bonus to all Influence checks towards Princess Eutropia and Baron Okerra, but a -2 circumstance penalty to Influence checks towards Countess Pace, Duke Centimus and Maxillar Pythareus.\
\

\f1\b PRINCESS EUTROPIA STAVIAN I
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (nature DC12 or diplomacy DC17) a well-concealed love for animals. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nobility, DC14): Performance DC18; Lore (Taldor) DC20; Diplomacy DC23.\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (2): Each PC gains a hero point.\
\

\f1\b WYSSILKA THE FANTABULOUS
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Weakness
\f0\b0  (religion, DC16) Wyssilka uses well-disguised magic of a divine nature to enhance her performance. Revealing this knowledge intrigues her, granting a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (perform, DC11): Diplomacy DC18; Deception DC19; Performance DC20.\

\f1\b Benefit
\f0\b0  (2): Pick Baron Okerra, Countess Pace, or Duke Centimus. Wyssilka can reveal either their weakness or two influence skills.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 AREAS
\f0\b0 \
\

\f1\b A1. ARCADE OF TRIUMPH
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b NPCs:
\f0\b0  General Pythareus, Duke Talbot, Marquess Deschamps, Landgrave Jarlbjorn\

\f1\b Influence skills:
\f0\b0  Craft DC11, Lore (History) DC12, Lore (Nobility) DC12, Perception DC14\

\f1\b -10pt-
\f0\b0  notes on Dignity\'92s Barb Lore (History).\

\f1\b -20pt-
\f0\b0  Superb Repair Kit. Copernia is distracted, allowing a +5 circumstance bonus to any attempts to steal (see Mission Theft).\

\f1\b Special:
\f0\b0  See Mission (Theft, Spy) and Loot (A1). The journal grants a +2 circumstance bonus on Deception and Society for the Theft mission.\
\

\f1\b A2. COURTYARD\
NPCs:
\f0\b0  Lady Morilla, Princess Eutropia, Baronet Cicato, Marquess Starborne\

\f1\b Influence skills: 
\f0\b0 Nature DC11, Lore (Taldor) DC14, Performance DC12.\

\f1\b -15pt-
\f0\b0  each PC learns an Influence skill from an NPC of their choice.\

\f1\b -30pt-
\f0\b0  each PC gains a +2 circumstance bonus to deception, diplomacy and intimidate during the rest of the Gala.\
\

\f1\b A3. EMPEROR\'92S HALL
\f0\b0 \
-no notes-\
\

\f1\b A4. GALLERY\
NPCs: 
\f0\b0 Countess Pace, Wyssilka, Lord Kastner, Lady Martella\

\f1\b Influence skills:
\f0\b0  Acrobatics DC14, Deception DC14, Performance DC12, Thievery DC14.\

\f1\b -15pt-
\f0\b0  increase the number of rounds in each event (up to event 7) by 1. Grant a +2 circumstance bonus to all Athletics and Acrobatics check to move through the crowd.\

\f1\b -30pt-
\f0\b0  donations amounting to 23sp and an 18sp bottle, plus a scroll of Hideous Laughter.\

\f1\b Special:
\f0\b0  if both the Gallery and Servant areas are influenced at the first stage, PCs with the Aide mission do not require checks to move through the crowd. Also, see Mission (Discovery). Requires Countess Pace to have been influenced at least once.\
\

\f1\b A5. IMPERIAL ARCHIVES\
NPCs:
\f0\b0  Duke Centimus, Count Zespire, Grand Duke Avernathus, Viscountess Nicodemius\

\f1\b Influence skills:
\f0\b0  Arcana DC14, Nature DC14, Lore (History) DC14, Society DC11, Lore (Academia) DC11, Lore (Heraldry) DC12.\

\f1\b -10pt-
\f0\b0  Lore (History) tidbits on the ancient senate. +2 to Initiative and Recall Knowledge vs walcofindes.\

\f1\b -20pt-
\f0\b0  scrolls of blur, flaming sphere, phantom steed and web\

\f1\b Special:
\f0\b0  Mission (Discovery), requires Duke Centimus to have been influenced.\
\

\f1\b A6. SENATE FLOOR\
NPCs:
\f0\b0  Baron Okerra, Kalbio, Lazy Clement, Earl Vernisant, Earl Varima\

\f1\b Influence skills:
\f0\b0  Deception DC14, Lore (Taldor) DC12, Lore (Nobility) DC12, Religion DC12, Performance DC12, Lore (Barrister) DC11, Diplomacy DC14.\

\f1\b -10pt-
\f0\b0  can use one of the Influence skills from the Senate to influence another area\

\f1\b -20pt-
\f0\b0  a gold ring worth 30sp\
Special:\
\

\f1\b A7. SERVANT AREAS\
NPCs:
\f0\b0  \'97\

\f1\b Influence skills:
\f0\b0  Crafting DC12, Medicine DC15, Intimidate DC12, any cooking-related lore DC11, Perception DC15.\

\f1\b -10pt-
\f0\b0  gossip grants a single Weakness from an NPC of the PC\'92s choice. Grant a +2 circumstance bonus to all Athletics and Acrobatics check to move through the crowd.\

\f1\b -20pt-
\f0\b0  one Antidote\

\f1\b Special:
\f0\b0  if both the Gallery and Servant areas are influenced at the first stage, PCs with the Aide mission do not require checks to move through the crowd.\
\
\
\

\f1\b SECONDARY NPCS
\f0\b0  (all secondary NPCs require 3 successes to fully influence)\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 GRAND DUKE AVERNATHUS\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (arcane DC12) knows the importance of luck and magic in politics. Acknowledging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nobility, DC13): Arcana DC16; Athletics DC18; Diplomacy DC22.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  the Grand Duke can arrange for faster retraining by providing books and tutors, halving the time for martials to retrain into spellcasting archetypes or spell caster retraining into martial archetypes. Can get PCs in touch with spellcasting service providers 1 level higher than normal per location.\
\

\f1\b BARONET DURANIS CICATO\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (military DC12) respects strength and hard stances. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (taldor DC11): Lore (Military) DC15; Lore (Taldor) DC18; Intimidate DC20.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  Transport near Cassomir (and so in Meratt) is 20% faster, so long as the PCs maintain his favour.\
\

\f1\b LAZY ZARIYAH CLEMENT\
Weakness 
\f0\b0 (diplomacy DC10 or art DC14) favours tact and attention to detail. Leaning into this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nobility, DC14): Diplomacy DC16; Lore (Taldor) DC19; Lore (Art) DC22.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  Lady Clement\'92s estate is a well-hidden safehouse north of the Verduran forest, away from prying eyes. Useful in book 4 and 6 (and book 2 if things turn bad). Available item level is 12.\
\

\f1\b MARQUESS CHARLOTTE DESCHAMPS\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (fashion DC12 or Lore (Nobility) DC14) boldness and fineries. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nobility, DC13): Lore (Art) DC16; Lore (Fashion) DC18; Lore (Taldor) DC19; Performance DC25.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  Charlotte is a Pathfinder agent risen to Lore (Nobility), and can share her connections to PCs willing to join the Society after the events of book 1, granting them access.\
\

\f1\b LANDGRAVE OGVAI JARLBJORN\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (athletics DC12) strength and committment. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nature, DC11): Nature DC16; Lore (Taldor) DC18; Athletics DC21.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  lore on the Ulfen Guard. In book3, Jarlbjorn\'92s lands are just east of Yanmass - he can provide intel, noting two desert drakes have been spotted destroying caravans and accompanying bandits.\
\

\f1\b LORD REMILLARD KASTNER\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (religion DC11 or Lore (Nobility) DC13) redemption and firmness against evil. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (religion, DC13): Lore (Fiends) DC16; Religion DC17; Diplomacy DC22.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  he offers a signet ring with his crest, granting a 10% discount for all spellcasting services from good-aligned churches and priests inLore (Taldor).\
\

\f1\b VISCOUNTESS OCTAVIA NICODEMIUS\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (occult DC12 or deception DC17) hoards secrets and knowledge. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (deception, DC13): Lore (History) DC18; Arcane DC20; Occult DC22.\

\f1\b Benefit: 
\f0\b0 Octavia can grant access to occult or arcane scrolls up to 15th level, and wands or staves up to 18th level. This generally takes a week. If the PCs travel to the Endless Repository, they can access and copy spells up to 9th level and gain access to large amounts of esoteric information.\
\

\f1\b MARQUESS TANASHA STARBORNE\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (nature DC12 or any spellcasting skill DC15) loves great displays of magic and joy. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (nobility, DC11): Nature DC16; Lore (Taldor) DC19; any art or craft DC20.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  PCs can gain a fey boon if they ever visit the Verduran Forest (very close to Meratt). Choose one Focus spell among Moonbeam, Overstuff, Read Fate, Sweet Dream. The players can call on it three times as a group. It never recharges.\
\

\f1\b DUKE GEORGI BACKUS TALBOT II\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (mercantile DC12 or diplomacy DC18) trade policies and long-distance connections. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (society, DC14): Lore (Mercantile) DC12; any profession or craft DC20; Society DC 23.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  PCs can purchase items secretly through Talbot\'92s network from any city inLore (Taldor), up to level 12 items. This generally takes a week, but never raises any suspicion.\
\

\f1\b EARL GAHEZ VARIMA\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (society DC16) compromises, stability, foreign relations. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (diplomacy, DC14): Diplomacy DC18; Lore (Taldor) DC20; Society DC23.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  Earl Varima\'92s contacts among the Keleshite and the border can provide refuge and assistance in Zimar, granting +3 operation points to each PC and a small safe house once they reach the city in book 4.\
\

\f1\b EARL CALHADION VERNISANT\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (history DC14 or intimidate DC16) bloody Lore (History) and past glories. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence
\f0\b0  (history, DC13): Stealth DC17; Intimidate DC19; Lore (Military) DC22.\

\f1\b Benefit: 
\f0\b0 the Earl suggests he can \'91take care\'92 of any rivals if the PCs ever need him to. After his death at the hand of Pathfinders in the Massacre, his remaining contacts can aid by removing soldiers, guards, sentinels, or surveillance depending on the situation, but only once. Calling on this favour is an evil act. Effects are up to the GM.\
\

\f1\b COUNT ORLUNDO ZESPIRE\
Weakness
\f0\b0  (nature DC15 or craft DC18) competence, persistance, the navy. Leveraging this grants a +4 cirumstance bonus.\

\f1\b Influence 
\f0\b0 (nature, DC14): Lore (Mercantile) DC14; Lore (Taldor) DC16; Nature DC22.\

\f1\b Benefit:
\f0\b0  PCs can purchase items secretly through Zespire\'92s network from any city inLore (Taldor) which is touched by rivers, up to level 16 items. This generally takes two weeks, but never raises any suspicion.}